Good afternoon.
My name is Josh Shaffer and I'm
an engineer on the iPhone team
at Apple and I work on UI kit.
And today we're going to be
talking about iPhone table views.
Hopefully you all at least had a chance
to hear a little bit about iPhone view
controllers or have seen a little bit.
There was just a session on it right
before this and hopefully you had a
chance to learn about that a little bit.
And if you did,
you know that a view controller
is a great way to manage a
screen full of information.
But what do you do now if you have
more than a screen full of information?
Well, that's why we're going to
talk about table views now,
which let you handle and display more
than one screen full of information.
So we're going to cover
a few things today.
We'll start out with the
anatomy of a table view and
what exactly a table view is.
Now these things may seem a
little bit basic at first,
but it's important that we start out
with a good basic understanding of
what exactly a table view is and the
different parts of it so that we can
then talk a little bit more about how
you'll actually use this in the best
way that you can in your applications.
And once we have a good
foundation to build on,
we'll talk about three main topics.
We'll talk about how to
create your table view,
how you'll display content in it,
and then how you can interact
with it and allow your users
to interact with the table.
So first off, what is a table view?
Well,
the first thing that may come to your
mind when you think about table views is
maybe just a basic list of information,
just some black text
on a white background,
just a very simple scrolling
list of information.
And while UI table view on the iPhone
can certainly be used for that,
it's actually significantly
more powerful than that.
And you can create some very compelling
user interfaces just using UI table view
if you're willing to do just a little bit
of work in order to customize the look
just a little bit for your application.
So let's start off by looking at a few
places on the phone in the existing
applications that ship from Apple and
see how UI table view is used there.
So in the iTunes application,
the UI table view is used here to
display all of the tracks that your
users can choose from in their albums.
The clocks application,
each clock in this list is a
separate row in a UI table view.
In the iTunes Music Store application,
a UI table view is used to
display all the content in the
center area of the screen there.
All of the individual tracks
available for purchase are rows.
And even that area at the top
with the image and the extra
information about the album,
all of that is displayed
within a single UI table view.
And finally,
the settings application uses
UI Table View extensively to display all
of the settings that are available for
users of the iPhone to change and set
different options for the phone itself.
So as you can see,
there's some very different types
of user interfaces that can be
created using UI Table View.
But we do provide two basic
building blocks that you can
start from in order to build your
custom UI Table View appearances.
So on the left-hand side here,
we have the plain style table view.
And on the right-hand side,
we have the group style table view.
Now, as I mentioned,
these are two just basic styles that are
provided out of the box by UI Table View.
When you create your table,
you can choose one or the other,
and you'll just get this
appearance by default.
Now, everything we just saw is built
on one of these two styles,
just with a bit of extra
customization to get the extra
custom look that each one has.
So now that we've seen some
places where this can be used,
let's talk about the different
pieces that were used to compose the
different tables that we just saw.
So at the top, we have the table header,
and at the bottom, the table footer.
These are just custom UI views.
You can set them as a property
on the UI table view itself.
You just create your own custom UI view
and assign it to the table to be
used as the table header and footer.
Now, these appear at the top and bottom
of your content within the table.
As the user scrolls
the table up and down,
the table header and footer
will scroll with that content.
So they make sure that the user has
the maximum available space to view the
areas between the table header and footer
since they can scroll it off screen.
Then between the table header
and footer are the sections.
Now, this may be a new concept,
for those of you that are familiar
with tables on other platforms.
But by default,
we divide the content in our table
views up into individual sections.
Now, a lot of people think, well,
I don't really want to use sections.
I don't have any need for that.
So they decide to tell the table
that they want zero sections.
You don't really want to do this,
because if you do that,
then you'll have no content
in your table at all.
So by default,
if you don't want sections,
just don't do anything,
and you'll get the
default of one section.
Now, the sections are composed of,
at the top,
a section header and at the bottom,
a section footer.
This is pretty similar to the
table header and footer in that you
can define a custom UI view that
appears however you like and assign
it to the table to be displayed
as the section header and footer.
Or alternatively,
you can just return an NSString and it
will be displayed as a title within the
section header and footer and it will
have a standard appearance defined by
the table style that you have selected.
And between the section headers and
footers are where the actual data is
displayed in the rows or table cells.
So altogether, these pieces make up
a full UI table view.
But you may be thinking that I mentioned
that there's actually a second style,
the grouped style.
And this is actually no different.
There's a slightly different appearance,
but all of the different
parts are exactly the same.
So if we take a look at this same
image but convert to the grouped style,
it doesn't really change at all.
There's some different appearances,
default appearances for
the different parts,
but they're all in the exact same spot.
So once you've figured out
how to create one table,
you already know how
to create both styles.
So now that we've seen what the
UI table view pieces look like,
let's take a closer look at the cells
that you'll display your content in.
So on the left-hand side,
we have room for an image.
Next to the image is
room for a textual label.
If you haven't provided an image,
that textual label will stretch
to fill the full content
width of the cell itself.
And on the far right-hand side
is room for an accessory view.
Now, the accessory view,
you can provide your own view,
but we've also provided three standard
accessory types that you can choose
from with very little work on your part.
So first of all, we have the check mark.
The check mark can be used to indicate
that a particular row in your table
is the one that is selected or that
that row is checked by the user.
Next, we have the disclosure chevron.
You should use this to indicate that
your users can tap on this particular
cell in order to get more information.
Generally,
this indicates to the user that they
can tap on this cell and another
pane of information will slide in,
probably in a UI navigation
controller navigation hierarchy,
in order to display the
content related to that cell.
And finally,
we have the Detail Disclosure Chevron.
Now, this gives the user the idea that
they can tap on the cell in order
to perform an action related to it,
for instance,
to play a movie that's related to
this particular content in this cell,
or that they can tap on the
Disclosure Chevron itself in
order to get more detail about it.
So it's slightly different from
the regular Detail Disclosure
Chevron in that there's actually two
different behaviors that you can get,
one when you tap on the cell
and one when you tap on the
Disclosure button here itself.
So these are all the different
pieces that make up a UI table view.
So now let's talk about how
you'll create your UI table view.
We found very often that it was
common for people to create UI table
views that took up the full content
area available on the device.
And as we just learned in the
session about UI view controllers,
a UI view controller is a great way to
manage this screen full of information.
So we found that people were often
creating UI view controllers just
to manage this single UI table
view that took up the full screen.
So in order to reduce the amount of
code that you have to write every time
that you want to use one of these,
we created UI table view controller.
It takes care of creating
your UI table view for you,
and it also helps you to
conform to the human interface
guidelines defined for the iPhone.
But first let's talk about how
it creates your table view.
So when you create a
UI table view controller,
you can specify that you want
either the grouped or plain style.
And UI table view controller
will create a table view of
the appropriate type for you.
If you'd prefer, you can instead use the
UI view controller method for
loading your view from a nib.
So if you want to lay it
out in Interface Builder,
you can do that instead.
So if you'd like to do that,
then in Interface Builder,
you would create a new document.
You would define the file's owner
to be of the type UI table view
controller or actually more likely
your UI table view controller subclass.
You'll then add a UI table view
to your nib by dragging it out
of Interface Builder's pane.
And you'll then attach the files
owner's view outlet to point to this
new table view that you just created.
With these three things set
up in Interface Builder,
you can then have
UI Table View Controller load
your table view right from there.
And so you can then move on to defining
the appearance and behavior of the
table view within Interface Builder.
So then you can choose here
whether you'd like the grouped
style or plain style table view.
You could set other options such
as whether or not separators are
drawn between cells in the table
view or other behavioral options
that you can look at in Interface
Builder and see for yourself.
So the other thing that
UI Table View Controller does for
you is to help you conform to the
iPhone human interface guidelines.
So one example of things that
it does for you is when a
UI Table View first appears on screen,
it should flash its scroll indicator
on the right-hand side to give the
user some context as to what they're
seeing right now as compared to the
full amount of content that's available
to be scrolled into the Table View.
So over here on the right-hand
side of the Table View,
when it first becomes visible,
the scroll indicator will flash like
this to show the user this information.
UI Table View Controller takes
care of this for you,
so if you use it,
it will automatically happen.
You don't have to do anything else.
The second way that it helps you to
conform to the human interface guidelines
is through the use of the Edit button.
So often,
you'll have a UITableViewController
that you'll want to edit content within,
adding and removing rows.
And in order to support this,
you'll have an Edit button
up in a navigation bar.
UITableViewController creates this
Edit button for you and helps to make
sure that its state is always in sync
with the table view's editing state.
So up here on the left,
when the user taps on this button,
it will switch to a Done button,
and the Edit state of the table
view will change to Match.
And the same will happen
when the user taps Done.
The final thing that it does
is to help you manage selection
within a navigation hierarchy.
So when your user taps on
the John Appleseed contact,
that contact's name is going to
highlight briefly to show the
user that they've tapped on it.
And then another pane of information
will slide in showing the full
information about John Appleseed.
So when your user taps on
the John Appleseed contact,
that contact's name is going to
highlight briefly to show the full
information about John Appleseed.
So this is how you'll create
your table view controller.
I emphasize UI table view controller
because it really does provide a
lot of behavioral standard behaviors
that you really want to conform to.
And it also does reduce the amount of
code that you have to write in order
to get everything to work correctly.
And also you get the benefit of
being able to use it directly
within your other navigation
hierarchies or tab hierarchies.
UI Table View Controller is
just a UI view,
so if you prefer,
you actually could just allocate
a new UI table view and insert it
into your view hierarchy directly.
So now that you know how you'll
create your UI table view,
let's talk about how you're going
to display your content within it.
Now, there's two design patterns
here that you'll want to follow,
and they're probably already
familiar from other sessions today.
The first is Model View Controller,
and the second is Delegation.
So let's take a look visually at
how this is all going to play out.
So for the model view
controller design pattern,
obviously here on the
left we have our view,
the UI table view.
Then we'll add our model.
In this case,
it's going to be pretty simple just
to keep it pretty straightforward.
We'll have just an array of data,
and each element in the array will be
the content for a particular section.
And that content will be the name
of the section and all of the
rows to be displayed within it.
So this is our model,
but your model could be
anything that you like.
However you store your data,
that's your model.
And then the final
piece is the controller,
our UI Table View controller,
which ties these two together.
So there are a few questions that
the table is going to have to
ask of the controller in order to
display the content from your model.
And the way it's going to
do this is using delegation.
And it will be using the
UI Table View data source protocol.
And a UI Table View data source is
just a special type of delegate.
So if you're using
UI Table View controller,
your UI Table View controller
is automatically set to be the
data source for your table view.
So the first thing the table view needs
to know is how many sections are there.
So it's going to ask your table
view how many sections are there.
Sorry, it's going to ask your
table view controller.
And it will do this by calling the
number of sections in table view method.
Your table view controller will
then look into the section array,
determine how many sections are
needed to display all of your content,
and return that to the table view.
Once your table view knows
how many sections there are,
it next needs to know how many
rows there are in each section.
So your table view will ask the
table view controller how many
rows are there in section zero.
It will do this by calling the table
view number of rows in section method.
At that point, your controller will look
into the data source,
into the model,
determine how many rows are necessary
to display section zero's content,
and it will return that
to your table view.
Now, as you can imagine,
the same thing is going to happen
for every other section in the table.
Once the table knows how many
rows there are in each section,
it now needs to know what
content to display in each row.
So it will ask the table view controller,
what should I display in section zero,
row zero?
And it's going to do this by
calling the table view cell
for row at index path method.
So at this point,
your table view controller will look
into your model and determine what
content should be displayed in that row.
Your table view controller
will create a new cell,
lay out the content within it,
and return that to the
table view to be displayed.
Now you may notice here that
I mentioned that your table view
controller actually creates the cell
and returns it that is displayed.
I mean this quite literally.
The thing it's returning is actually
an instance of UITableViewCell.
Now this is a direct subclass of UIView.
This is important because the thing
that you're returning from your
TableView cell for row at index path
method is going to be inserted directly
into the view hierarchy by UI TableView.
So when your method returns it,
UI TableView simply sizes it
to fit the area for the row and
inserts it into the view hierarchy.
This allows you,
in your TableView cell for
row at index path method,
to determine the exact appearance
of the cell and its content
just by configuring this UI view
to appear the way you'd like.
Now, we're not going to talk about cell
customization here specifically,
but if you come to the Mastering
iPhone Table Views session
later in this week on Friday,
we'll talk all about the different ways
that you can customize UI TableView cells
to get all sorts of different
custom appearances in these cells.
you may be thinking that now
there's going to be a lot of views
created if you have a large table.
So, if you can imagine that you have
a hundred elements in your table,
and the user scrolls from the top of
that table all the way to the bottom,
every row in that table is going
to move through the visible area,
although most of them are
only going to be visible for
a very brief period of time.
If you had to create a new UI table
view cell for every row that appeared,
the performance wouldn't be very good,
and you'd be using an
awful lot of memory.
So, in order to solve this problem,
we've introduced the
concept of cell reuse.
So let's take a look visually here
at how this is going to behave.
So as the user begins
to scroll their table,
a new cell is going to
become visible at the bottom.
And the table view is going
to request the cell to be
displayed from its controller.
So in your table view
self-arrowed index path method,
you'll notice that there are
no cells available for reuse
in the reuse queue just yet.
So you'll allocate a new one.
With table view cells in it with
frame reuse identifier method,
you'll lay out the content within
it and you'll return it to the table
and the table can then display it.
But now as the user continues
to scroll that content up,
the John Appleseed cell at the top is
going to move off the visible area.
So as we'll see now, once that happens,
the table view is going to put
that cell into the reuse queue.
It's actually removing it from
the view hierarchy at this point.
So the only cells that are ever
actually in your view hierarchy are
the ones that are visible on screen.
All the other rows in your
table are there conceptually,
but there's no UI views behind
them if they're not visible.
So now as the user continues to scroll,
another table cell is going to
become visible at the bottom.
And the table will ask your
table view controller for the
content to be displayed there.
This time in your table view
cell for ROID index path method,
there is a reusable cell available.
So you'll call a different method,
dq reusable cell with identifier,
which will return that
UI table view cell to you.
You can then configure it with your
new content using the same cell
object that you had created before and
return it to the table view display.
It's going to insert it again
into the view hierarchy now at
the bottom for this new row.
And as the user continues to scroll,
more cells will be moved into the
reuse queue and they'll be recycled.
So as the user scrolls up,
cells will cycle from the
top back to the bottom,
making sure that a minimum number
of cells ever have to be created in
order to display just the content
that's ever actually visible.
So it often strikes people as if cell
reuse is a somewhat complicated concept.
And it's really not.
There's just a couple of methods
that you have to know about.
The DQ reusable cell identifier and
the table view cell initializer.
And with just these two basic things,
you can take advantage of cell reuse.
And I really encourage you,
if you're using UI table view,
please use cell reuse.
The performance of a UI table view
scrolling will not be nearly as good
if you're not reusing cells as it
will be if you're not reusing cells.
be if you do.
So now that we've seen conceptually
what these things look like,
let's take a look at some of the
methods that you'll actually be working
with in order to implement all this.
So I mentioned the UI Table View data
source methods already,
Table View Number of Rows in Section,
and Table View Self-Aeroic Index Path.
These are the only two required
methods on UI Table View data source.
And with just these two,
you can define a single section
table and its content and get it
to appear on screen with really
a very small amount of effort.
And then for cell reuse,
we have DQ reusable cell with identifier,
which is a method on UI table view.
So in your self-erode index path method,
you can call this in order to get a
reusable cell if one is available.
And when one's not,
then there's the UI table view
cell designated initializer init
with frame reuse identifier.
And then for cell reuse,
we have DQ reusable cell with identifier,
which is a method on UI table
view cell designated initializer
init with frame reuse identifier.
So in your self-erode index path method,
you can call this in order to get a
reusable cell if one is available.
And when one's not,
then there's the UI table view
cell designated initializer init
with frame reuse identifier.
And then for cell reuse,
we have DQ reusable cell
with frame reuse identifier.
So in your self-erode index path method,
you can call this in order to get a
reusable cell if one is available.
And when one's not,
then there's the UI table view
cell designated initializer init
with frame reuse identifier.
So, if we look at an example here,
we've got two different basic
types of cells in this table view.
We've got one that has, at the top,
a basic label on the left and
then a sub-label on the right.
So,
we can name this cell with an identifier,
and we can call it identifier one.
Then the second type of cell that
we have has the switch button on
the bottom on the right-hand side,
and we can name that type of cell
with the name identifier two.
Now, obviously,
you can be more creative with your names.
I'm clearly not creative,
but there you are.
And once you've done this in your table
view cell for row at index path method,
then you can,
once you've determined what type
of cell you need for the row
you're going to be returning,
you can try and dequeue a reusable
cell of the appropriate type.
So you already know that the content
or that the structure of the cell
is already the type that you expect.
And you can just worry about setting
the content in that cell in your
cell for row at index path method.
This really makes using cell reuse
with tables that have multiple
types of cells really quite easy.
So now that we've seen all of this,
if we put it all together,
this is an implementation of
table view self-heroic index path.
So the first thing that you'll do is
you'll have your reuse identifier here,
and you'll try to dequeue a reusable
cell with that reuse identifier.
That will return nil if
one is not available.
So if that happens,
then you can just allocate
and initialize a new one,
again using the same reuse identifier.
Now that you've got your cell,
you'll configure its content.
So we've got the cell.
In this case, we're just going to set the
cell's text to a static string,
row text.
But you could do much more
complicated configuration here
to make it look however you like.
But you may notice in this
particular implementation,
we haven't actually looked at
the section or the row that
the table is asking us about.
That's represented by the index
path up in the self-reward
index path method name.
So there's really only two things
that you need in order to uniquely
identify a cell within the table.
The first is the section that it's in,
and the second is the
row in that section.
We already had a foundation object that
could represent an array of integers,
and that's NSIndexPath.
So we use that in order to
represent the particular cell
that a table is requesting.
And in our case,
it's always a special case
because there are only ever
two integers in our index path,
the section and the row.
So in order to simplify this,
we've added a category on
NSIndexPath that exposes this
a little bit more clearly.
So we've added two properties,
the section and row properties,
so that you can just get the section
and row from an index path directly.
And as you can see here,
there's also a new convenience method
for creating a new one if you need to.
So in your code,
when you want to reference the
section in a row that a particular
index path corresponds to,
you can just type index path dot
row or index path dot section.
So now that we've seen all this,
let's take a look at a demo of
how it's all going to go together.
What we want to end up with is
something that looks like this.
We'll have basically a table
that has multiple sections,
and each section will have 20 rows in it.
We'll have different
titles for each section.
And we're going to add one piece that
we haven't talked about just yet,
but it's actually really easy to add,
so we just want to
mention it real quickly.
On the right-hand side,
we have this index bar,
which allows the user to quickly
choose a particular section in
your table to jump to it directly.
So let's take a look at how
we're going to build this demo.
So I've already created the Xcode project
that we're going to use for this demo.
There's really very little
in my view controller.
I've got a custom subclass of UI table
view controller that we're going
to call the list view controller.
And we can just start implementing
our table view data source methods.
Well, actually, before we do that,
we're going to define our model,
and this will be a very similar
thing to what we just saw.
It'll be very simple.
We're just going to create an array.
It'll just be an NSMutable array,
and each element in the
array will correspond to a
particular row in the table.
Now, we're going to start out very simple
by only having a single section,
so we don't have to have-- so
we can ignore all the section
options right from the start here.
So we're not going to implement number
of sections in table because we're
only going to have a single one,
so we'll get the default behavior.
So the first method that we have to
implement is number of rows in section.
This will tell the table how
many rows to display in the
one section that we'll have.
Since our array is just an array of
elements and each string in the array
is a particular row in the table,
we can just return the count of
elements in that array from table
view number of rows in section.
And this will tell the table
how many rows need to be
displayed in our single section.
Second, we need the table view
self-heroic index path method.
Now,
this is where we're going to actually
customize the content that's going
to be displayed in the table.
So first,
we've created our reuse identifier
that we're just calling my identifier.
Next, we'll have to get the actual
UI table view cell that we're
going to use to display this row.
So first,
we'll try to dequeue one from the table.
So we'll call table view dequeue
reusable cell with identifier with
the identifier that we just set up.
If one isn't available here,
then we're going to have
to allocate one ourselves.
So we'll call table view cells init
with frame reuse identifier designated
initializer and again provide the same
reuse identifier that we just defined.
Now that we've got our cell and we
know what we're going to display,
we can get the content that
we want to display within it.
So we can just look in our contents array
and pull out the element that corresponds
to the row that the table is requesting.
And we'll assign that to
the cell's text property.
Once we've configured the cell this way,
then we can just return it
for the table for display.
So we've only implemented
two methods here,
but we can now build it and we can run.
And already,
we'll have a table that can display
a simple collection of 20 rows.
And the user can scroll up and down,
and we get this scroll indicator
on the right-hand side.
So with a very small amount of work,
we've already got a table view working.
: So the first thing we'll have to do
is redefine our model a little bit.
So first we're going to need
an array of section titles.
This is just going to be
one title per section,
and they'll just be the
letters of the alphabet.
And then we're also going
to modify our array so that
it's now an array of arrays.
So each element in the outer array
is the data for a particular section,
and each element in an inner
array is a row in that section.
So we do have to add now one more method.
We'll have to add the number
of rows in table view method.
Oh, sorry, the number of sections
in table view method.
And this is going to be now just
returning the count of the elements
in our contents array since each
element there corresponds to a
particular section in the table.
But that means now we
have to modify our-- oh,
I'm sorry.
One more thing before we do that.
We also want to add a
title in each header.
So in order to do that,
we can add the table view title
for header and section method.
And we already have an
array of section titles,
so we can just return the element that
corresponds to the particular section
that the table is asking us about.
Now, we also have to modify
tableViewNumberOfRowsInSection since
our model is now an array of arrays.
So in order to get this right,
we now have to pull out
the outer array-- sorry,
pull out the inner array from
the outer array that corresponds
to the section and then count
the number of elements in that,
which is the number of rows
in that particular section.
And we'll have to make a pretty
similar modification here to get
the correct text for the cell.
Again,
we're going to pull out the inner array
corresponding to the particular section
that the table's asking us about.
And then we'll get the object
corresponding to the row that the
table is asking about and assign
that to the text field for the cell.
So now when we build and run,
we've got a new UI table view that
now displays multiple sections,
each of which contains 20 rows.
But now this table is
getting kind of long.
And for a user to scroll all
the way through this could
be kind of time consuming.
And it would be hard for them to find
the exact place that they want to be.
So we're going to add that
index bar that I mentioned.
In order to do that,
we only have to actually
add one more method.
So we can add the section index
titles for table view method.
And that just returns an array
of the titles of each section.
But we already have an array that
contains all the titles of the sections.
So we can just return
that array directly.
And with that simple change,
when we build and run, now we've got this
section bar on the right,
and the user can scrub through that
to jump quickly to a particular
section in their table view.
Now,
I should mention that this particular
section index is only available
on the plain style table view,
not on the group style table view.
So now if we switch back to slides.
So now we've seen how you'll
create your table view and we've
seen how you're going to get
your data to display within it.
The last piece that we have to get to get
our full functionality here is to allow
the user to interact with your table.
So what's going to happen when the
user taps on a particular cell?
How are you informed about this and
how are you going to respond to it?
Well, that's what UITableViewDelegate
does for you.
So when the user taps
on a particular cell,
we can look at a couple examples
of what happens in this case.
In the settings application,
we've got a list of ringtones
that the user can choose from in
order to pick the one they want.
When the user taps on a row here,
that row will highlight briefly,
the check mark will move to that row,
and then the selection will fade out.
In the address book,
we saw this example earlier.
When the user taps on the
John Appleseed contact,
it's going to highlight briefly and
a pane of information will slide in.
The idea here, again,
is that when the user
taps the back button,
we should slide back to the table view,
that row should still be highlighted,
and then it should fade out.
The most important concept to
take away from both of these
things is that selections in
UI Table View are temporary.
When the user selects a
particular row in your table,
you should perform some action and
then immediately deselect the cell
after that action has been performed.
Selections in UI Table View are not
used to indicate a persistent selection.
It's just a temporary thing.
So the methods that are going to
help you to implement all this,
on the UI Table View delegate protocol,
we have the table view
didSelectRowAtIndexPath method.
This is called when the
user taps on a cell,
and the table view has
already highlighted the
cell for you at that point,
and you're just being informed
that the user has tapped there.
So at that point,
you can perform whatever
action is appropriate for the
cell that's been tapped on,
and then you'll call the next method,
the UI Table View method,
that does the same thing.
So we have the table view
that we just created,
and we have the table
view that we just created.
Now, as I already mentioned before,
in the case of UI Table View Controller,
if you're using this in the
navigation hierarchy and you want
the behavior where sliding back to
a table keeps the cell selected and
then fades out as you've slid back,
you don't have to call
deselect row at index path.
UI Table View Controller handles
that part there for you.
But that's a special case.
In all the other cases,
you'll want to deselect the row yourself.
So let's take a look at how
all of this fits together in a
modification of the recipe sample
that we just saw in the UI view
controller session right before this.
So I hope you all had a chance to see it,
but if you didn't, I'm going to quickly
show you what they did.
The basic view controller-based
application that they created
is a very simple recipes viewer.
So at the top,
we have a view controller that
has a single button to allow
us to see chocolate cake,
which brings us into a recipe
detail view that gives us more
information about chocolate cake,
and then another button that allows
you to see a picture of chocolate cake.
Now, this is pretty basic,
and there's no way to
scroll any of this content,
so the amount that you can see
or that you can present to your
user is limited to the amount of
available space that's on the screen.
So we want to modify this by adding
some table views to really let you see
a lot of extra content in these screens.
So what we want to end up with
once we're done is something
that looks more like this.
At the top,
we'll have a table view that displays
all of the recipes that we know about.
When the user taps on one,
they'll get another table view that is
now a group-style table view with more
information that provides a full list
of ingredients and the category that you
want to categorize this recipe within,
and another thing that you can
tap on to get more instructions.
And the final thing that we'll want
to add is this category pop-up.
When your user taps on
this particular cell,
the idea is we want to slide in another
table view that allows the user to
choose what type of recipe this is.
So we can say that it's a soup,
which is obviously wrong,
but it's clearly an entree,
so we'll set that.
And so that's what we want to
end up with once we're done here.
So we'll start out with the
basic recipe sample app that
they created in the last session.
The only thing that we want to modify in
our application delegate is right here,
but we'll start out with a quick
overview of what's happened here.
They've created a
UI navigation controller,
and this is the thing that will
create the navigation bar at
the top of the window for us.
And we'll then be pushing all of
our table view controllers onto
that in order to slide them in.
Then they've created their
top level view controller,
which is the thing that we saw that
displayed the single button that
allowed them to choose chocolate cake.
So we want to replace this with
a new UI table view controller
subclass that we'll create that will
display all of the recipes in a list.
Oops.
That's not it.
So we're going to create our
recipe list table view controller.
And we're going to initialize it with the
plane style as a plane style table view.
And we've added one extra parameter
to our initializer that allows
us to pass in our model object,
which is just a recipe controller
that we've instantiated right here.
Then that view controller will get
pushed under the navigation stack
without animation since it's coming up
right as the application is launching.
We don't want it to be animating in.
And that's all we really have to do.
So now we'll implement the recipe list
table view controller so that we can
actually get content into that list.
We've got a small amount
of code here already.
But mostly, we're going to build this
from scratch right now.
We're just going to retain that
model object that we just passed
in from our application controller.
And we're going to set our title and
the row height to custom values here.
And then we've also implemented
dalloc just to release that
recipe controller when this
table view controller goes away.
But really,
there's nothing specific to what
we're worried about right now.
So the first thing that we'll
have to do is we want to tell the
table how many rows to display.
Again,
we're ignoring the number of sections in
this particular instance because this is
a single table that has only one section.
So we don't have to do
anything special there.
So we'll start out by implementing
table view number of rows in
section to tell the table how
many rows it needs to display.
Now, our recipes controller knows how to
tell us how many recipes it knows about,
so we can simply return that
value here for the number of rows.
So now that the table knows
how many rows there are,
it's going to be asking us for
the individual cells for each row.
So we'll implement table
view cell for row at index
path in order to return that.
And this is going to look very similar
to the ones that we've already seen.
So first off,
we'll declare our reuse identifier,
and we've got a couple of local variables
that we'll be using in a second.
Next, we're going to try and
dequeue our reusable cell.
And if one isn't available,
we'll allocate a new one.
Again, we've already seen all this,
but I just want to keep
emphasizing that you really do
want to be using this cell reuse.
So we're going to show it every time.
Once you've now got the cell that
you're going to be displaying,
next you want to fill out the content.
Now, we saw something a little bit more
complex in this particular example
than what we've seen before.
Now we want to add an
image as well as text.
So this isn't really any more difficult.
We'll ask our recipe controller
for the recipe corresponding to the
row that we're being asked about.
We'll get that recipe's name and
assign it as the cell's text.
And we'll get a thumbnail image
from our recipe and assign
that as the cell's image.
That's all the configuration
we really want to do here.
So then we'll just return
the cell for display.
So now if we build and run this,
Oh, yeah, no.
Sorry.
We're not going to build
and run that just yet.
The other thing that appears in these
lists is on the right-hand side you saw,
we want to be able to give the user
some idea that they can tap on a
particular row in this table and slide in
information about that particular recipe.
So we're going to want to use the
detailed disclosure chevron-- sorry,
not the detailed disclosure chevron,
the disclosure chevron-- in
order to get the user this idea
that they can tap on this cell.
Since we want the same accessory to
appear in every row in our table,
we can implement just one method,
the table view accessory type
for row at index path method.
And we'll always return
UITableViewCellAccessoryDisclosureIndic
ator to allow the user to have some
idea that they can tap on this cell.
But now that we've shown the
user that they can do this,
we should really implement
some logic to allow something
to happen once they do it.
So in order to do that,
we want to add the table view
didSelectRowAtIndexPath delegate method.
So we'll add an implementation of
that that asks our recipes controller
for the recipe corresponding to the
row that the user has tapped on.
And then we're just going to call
the showRecipeAnimated method,
which we'll implement now,
and it's actually very small.
First of all,
we're going to want to create a new
UI table view controller subclass.
So that will be the recipe
detail view controller,
which we'll use in order to display
all the detail about this recipe.
And this one we want to be of
UI table view style grouped.
So we'll just allocate one of these here.
I've already created the basic file,
but there's no content in it yet.
We'll assign the recipe that we
just got to our recipe detail view
controller so it knows what to display.
And we'll push that view
controller onto the navigation
controller's navigation stack.
Now, since we're never going to have
to deal with this particular
table view controller again
from this view controller,
we can release it here.
The navigation controller
has retained it,
and it's maintaining
now the only reference.
So once the user returns
to the main screen,
this view controller is just going
to be released automatically.
So now if we build and run,
we've now got a basic table view
that's displaying our image on
the left with the textual label
for each recipe on the right.
And we've got the disclosure chevrons
coming down the right-hand side.
And now the user can tap
on one of these rows,
and more information will slide in.
So now let's implement this extra
table view here to actually display the
extra information about each recipe.
So we'll move on to the
Recipe Detail View Controller.
This one has a small amount of
extra information already in here,
but not too much again.
In our initializer,
we're just setting up, again,
the navigation item's title,
which will display recipe
up in the navigation bar.
And in our dialog,
we're releasing a few objects that
we'll be creating in a minute.
We've also got an implementation
now of the viewWillAppear method.
This is called when the table
view is about to become visible.
Well,
the first thing that you want to do is
make sure to call super viewWillAppear
to make sure that UITableViewController
has a chance to perform whatever
actions it's going to be performing.
And in this case,
it's going to be flashing
the scroll indicator for us.
Now, the next thing we're going to do is
something that I actually want to
suggest that you don't do very often,
but we're going to do it
here for simplicity's sake,
is reload the data in our table.
This is the only place you're
going to see me call reload data
anywhere in any of these samples,
and that's actually a
very important point.
In almost every case,
you shouldn't really be calling reload
data on your table very frequently.
For the most part,
any updating that you have to do can
be done just on a row by row basis.
You don't have to reload the
data for the entire table.
If you start calling reload data a lot,
the performance is going to
start to degrade pretty quickly,
because a lot of work has to be done
to recalculate the full height of
the table and to ask your controller
for information about every section
and all the rows in the section.
A lot of work happens every
time you call reload data.
So if you can avoid it,
you really should just not use reload
data unless you absolutely have to.
But as I said,
for simplicity's sake here,
I'm going to just take the easy
route and call reload data.
And the idea here is that when the
user has changed the recipe type,
we want to update the content here when
they return to this view to reflect the
new recipe type that they've chosen.
So we'll call reload data so
that our table gets reloaded.
And we're going to set the title
of our view controller to the
recipe's name so that that will
appear in the navigation bar.
I've also got an implementation of a
method that we're going to wire up in
Interface Builder a little bit later,
which shows a photo of the recipe.
And this is using a view controller
that was created in the last
session on UIViewControllers,
which just displays the full
screen image of our recipe.
So with all that in place,
we can start to implement our UI table
view data source and delegate methods.
So the first thing that
we'll want to do is,
as you saw now,
and let's take a quick look at that
again just to refresh your memory,
this particular table view is
going to have multiple sections.
We're going to have one
section here for the category,
one section for the ingredients,
and one section at the bottom
for the lone instructions button.
So we've actually got a
constant number of sections.
So we can implement our number
of sections in table view
method to just return-- Whoops,
three.
And now that we've got our sections,
you saw those sections
each had their own title.
So next we'll implement the table
view title for header in section
method to return the titles to be
displayed for each of those sections.
So for the type section,
we'll return the name category.
That's a little odd, but yeah.
For the ingredient section,
we'll return the name ingredients.
And our other section
didn't have a title,
so we'll just return
nil for everything else.
Now that we know what the different
titles in the sections are,
we need to tell the table view how many
rows there are in each of these sections.
So we'll implement the table view
number of rows in section method.
Now, this is very similar to
things we've seen already,
but now we're going to be
switching on the section.
So for the type section and
the instruction section,
there's only ever one row in these.
They're just a single row that the
user can tap on to perform some action.
So we'll only be returning a
constant number 1 for this one.
For the ingredients section,
we want to ask our recipe for all of
the list of ingredients and count them.
And we'll return that as the number
of rows for the ingredients section.
And so then we can return that.
Now that the table knows how many rows
there are in each of these sections,
again, it's going to be asking us
for the rows to display there.
So we have to implement table
view cell for row at index path in
order to return that information.
Again, starting out very similar
to what we've already seen,
we're defining our own reuse identifier,
dequeuing a reusable cell
with that identifier,
and then calling a knit with frame reuse
identifier if one wasn't available.
But now cell configuration is
slightly different because we'll
be doing something different
depending on the section.
So we're going to add a switch statement
and switch on the indexpath.section
that the table is asking us about.
For the type section,
we'll ask the recipe for its
type and set the text to that.
For the ingredient section,
we're going to ask the recipe for
its list of ingredients and get the
ingredient that corresponds to the
row that the table is asking us for.
We'll then get the name of that
ingredient from this object and assign
that to the textual label for the cell.
And we are doing one other bit of
customization for this particular row.
We're going to set the
cell selection style to
UITableViewCellSelectionStylenone.
The idea here is that when
the user taps on an element in
the ingredients section here,
we don't actually want
to allow them to tap it.
We don't want to show any visible
feedback when the user taps there.
Nothing is going to happen,
so we want to make sure that
a cell selection never appears
when they're tapping there.
If we set the cell selection
style to CellSelectionStylenone,
then they'll never get
this visual feedback.
For the instruction section,
we're going to set the text to
the constant string instructions.
Now, I apparently have a bug in here,
so we're going to add one extra thing.
Because we're reusing cells,
we want to make sure that the
cell selection style is updated in
case we're reusing a cell from a
section that already had it set to
selection style none to display now
a row that should be selectable.
So we're going to change the
selection style back to blue
before we modify it by default.
So that just makes sure that if
we've reused a cell and we had
previously set its style to none,
we reset it back to blue so
that the user can now tap on it.
So now we've got our table
content being displayed,
but a few of these allow the
user to tap in order to slide
in another pane of information.
So in order to support that, again,
we have to implement table view
accessory type for row at index path.
So for the type section and
the instruction section,
which are the two that
the user can tap on,
we'll return
UITableViewCellAccessoryDisclosureIndic
ator to display the disclosure
indicator on the right-hand side.
And for all the rest,
which is just the ingredients ones,
we'll be returning
UITableViewCellAccessoryNone so
that we don't have an accessory.
And now, similar to what we did before,
we're actually going to want
to perform some action when the
user has tapped on these cells.
So in order to accomplish that,
we have to implement table
view didSelectRowAtIndexPath.
So we're going to find out
what section was selected.
And we're going to set up a local
variable here for a view controller.
So if the section that the user
tapped on was the type selection,
we're going to allocate a new
type selection view controller,
which is another custom subclass
of UI table view controller that
we'll be creating in just a minute.
And that's the thing that's going
to allow the user to tap on the
particular type of recipe and
choose the one that they want.
And this is, again,
going to be a group style table view.
So we'll initialize it with
UI table view style grouped.
And we'll set the recipe for that to be
the current recipe that we're looking at.
Next, if it's the instruction section,
which we saw all the way at the bottom,
then the user, when they tap on this,
will be sliding in a pane of
information that shows them the
instructions for creating this recipe.
So this is just an
instructions view controller,
which was created in the last session,
and we'll initialize that from a nib.
I'm not going to look too much into
this because there's no table view here.
So we're just creating
this new view controller.
And then in both of these cases,
if we've allocated a view controller,
we're going to push that onto our
navigation controller's view hierarchy
and again release it since we don't
really need to retain a reference here.
This way it will just go
away when the user returns.
So now when we build and run,
we've got this top level table view
that shows all of our different recipes.
And when the user taps on one,
now we've got a full table view showing
all the content that's available.
Now the other piece
that's still missing here,
which we saw earlier when
you saw the final version,
was at the top we had an image along with
the name shown at the top of the table.
Now we can implement that using
a custom table view header.
So let's go back to our code
and go back to the top here
where we had view will appear.
So there's another method that we
can implement called ViewDidLoad.
Oops.
And this is called only once.
So view will appear.
We want this to happen every
time the view becomes visible.
So as the user navigates back and forth,
this will get called every time our
table view becomes the visible view.
The viewDidLoad method is only called
once when this view is first allocated.
And so we only want to do this once,
so we'll implement the creation of
our table header in viewDidLoad.
This is actually an important
distinction between -- sorry,
there's actually an important distinction
between this and Awake from Nib.
We actually,
if you're using UI view controllers,
encourage you to use viewDidLoad here
in order to do this configuration
instead of Awake from Nib.
So now in order to create that table
header view that we want to create,
we're going to load it out of a
nib that I've already created.
So we'll get the main bundle and load
the nib named DetailHeaderView and
set its owner to ourself.
Now, if we take a quick look at
that nib in our resources,
- Oops.
Oh, hey, great.
There it is.
So what you're going to see here
is that we've got just a basic
view that's being laid out.
with a single image view and
a textual label next to it.
So our view has the single
image view here on the left
and the label on the right.
Now we've got some
outlets already set up.
So this name label is assigned
to the file's owner name label
outlet so that once it's loaded,
we'll have a reference to
it in our view controller.
So in the view controller here,
we've got these ID outlets set up
already that point to the UI view,
which is our table header view.
That's this.
The UI button, the photo button,
that's this.
[Transcript missing]
So once we've done that,
we can call self.tableview in order
to get a reference to our UI table
view controllers table view and assign
our new table header view to the table
view's table header view property.
This will allow it to
appear directly at the top.
And we'll also want to set the
table header view's background color
so that it matches the background
color of the rest of the table view.
You know, there was that vertical striped
appearance on the background
of the group style table view.
So we can ask UIColor for the
group table view background color,
which is going to give us that
background pattern and assign it to the
table header view's background color.
So the last piece that we want to
do is we actually want to configure
the content that's going to be
displayed in that table header.
So-- oops.
We'll add that up here to our view
will appear so that it will happen
once every time the view appears.
So we'll add the photo buttons on the
photo button that we just saw here,
this UI button.
We'll set its image.
: Hi, I'm Josh Shaffer.
I'm the editor of Table Views.
I'm going to show you how to use
the table view interface to create a
simple list of information on iPhone.
So with those changes,
we can now build and run.
And now, once we tap on the
recipe in our main list,
we've now got at the top this new
header that scrolls with the content.
[Transcript missing]
So the last piece that we want
to add here is the category.
We want to allow the user to tap
on this and select the category.
Now, laying this out is similar to
everything we've already seen,
so I'm not going to set that up again.
This is already done.
But as you can see,
as we're tapping on it,
nothing's happening.
The cells are remaining selected, which,
as I mentioned before,
is something we definitely don't want.
So let's go back and look at our
type selection view controller
and make this actually add a check
mark on the right hand side when
the user taps on one of these.
So we're going to modify our table
view self-heroic index path method
so that there's already a checkmark
accessory view on the right-hand side
for the cell that is the selected one.
Actually, I should mention one thing
before we get to that.
In the viewWillAppear method,
we've got this cache
selection index path object.
So that's just an instance variable
on our type selection view controller.
And it's just an instance
of NS index path.
The idea with this is our
particular model is storing the
type of the recipe as a string.
But for convenience
and for speed reasons,
we don't want to have to search
that list of strings every time that
we're looking up the selected cell.
So we'll precache the index in
our list of recipe types for the
type of this particular recipe.
So we're going to just go over the
list of recipe types and see if
each one is the type of the recipe
that we're currently looking at.
So we're going to just go over the
list of recipe types and see if
each one is the type of the recipe
that we're currently looking at.
So we're going to just go over the
list of recipe types and see if
each one is the type of the recipe
that we're currently looking at.
And if it is,
we'll set the cell selection index path
to an index path for that row in section
zero since there's only one section.
And we're just going to maintain
this selection index path as the
user changes the selection so that
we've always got a quick way to look
up which one is the selected cell.
So the modification we have
to make now in order to
actually make this happen-- oh,
sorry.
I started on this before,
and then I kind of jumped back.
So let's get back in sync here.
When this thing first slides into view,
and there's this new UI table view
showing the list of available types,
if one has already been selected--
so if we already have a type for
this recipe-- we want to show
the checkmark by default there.
So in our table view
self-arrow-at-index-path method,
we want to make sure that the
checkmark accessory type is already
set for the cell that corresponds
to the type of recipe that we have.
So if we already have this
selection index path that
we just set up a minute ago,
and if it's equal to the index path
that the table is asking us for,
then we're going to set that
cell's accessory type to
UITableViewCellAccessoryCheckmark.
If not, we'll set the accessory type to
UITableViewCellAccessoryNone in
case we're reusing cells again.
We want to make sure to remove the check
mark if we're reusing one that had it.
This is slightly different from how
we dealt with accessory types before.
We had before implemented the table view
accessory type for row at index path.
You can do that here too.
I'm just doing this to show you that
there's actually another way to do it.
And it allows you to configure
it here and make sure that you're
setting it when you're configuring
your cell to be what you want.
So now that we've got this
set up for the initial case,
we want to do something when the
user actually taps on the cell.
So in order to do that,
we have to implement table view
did select row at index path.
So we'll check to see if we
already have a selected index path.
And if we do, we want to remove the
check mark from that.
Now, this is an example of what I was
saying before where you really don't
want to just reload data simply
because something has changed.
It's much quicker here to
just remove the accessory from
the previously checked cell.
So if we had this selection
index path before,
we're going to ask the table
for the cell for row at index
path selection index path.
And this will return us the actual
UI table view cell that's being
displayed or nil if there isn't one.
So we can then set the check
cells accessory type to
UITableViewCellAccessoryNone.
So this avoids having to reload
data just to remove that check mark.
And then we'll update our cached
selection index path to be the index
path that the user has just tapped on.
But now we want to add the check mark
to the row that the user did just tap.
So in order to do that,
we're going to call self-arrowed
index path with the index path
that the user tapped on to
get the cell that they tapped.
And we'll set that cell's accessory type
to UITableViewCellAccessoryCheckmark.
Again, avoiding reloading data
just to add this check mark.
Next, we have to update our model to
reflect that we've made this change.
So we're going to get the list of
recipe types and get the object
at the index corresponding to
the row the user has tapped on.
And this is just going to be the
string representing the recipe type.
And we'll assign that
to our recipe's type.
And finally, most important part,
we want to deselect the row
because row selection is temporary.
So we'll call table view deselect row
at index path and say animated yes
in order to fade out that selection.
So now that we've got all that in place,
when we build and run this,
we've got our top level view
controller that shows the
list of all of the recipes.
We can drill down in,
and now we've got the content
of this chocolate cake recipe.
And now we can tap on this category,
which was previously unknown,
and set it to entree.
So when we go back, now you can see we've
got it set to entree.
And as we navigate back and forth,
that check mark is there.
And as we switch these different,
you can check on different things,
and the check mark will move.
So, that's all for that.
So we've put a lot of
stuff together here today,
but there's three main points
that you should really try
and take away from all this.
First off, if you can, please try to use
UI Table View Controller.
If you're thinking about rolling
your own or creating your
own full screen table view,
take a minute, step back,
and think about whether you can
use UI Table View Controller to
do it for you.
It'll reduce the amount
of code you have to write,
and it'll make sure that the behavior
of your table view is consistent with
the behavior of other table views.
Second, always, always reuse cells.
There may be a few, I hesitate to say,
reasons why you might not want to,
but think again.
You probably want to reuse cells.
And finally, selections are temporary.
When the user taps on a cell,
that cell should be selected
and remove that selection.
So there are a few related
sessions later in the week that
you should think about coming to.
The Mastering iPhone View Controllers
will have a lot more information
about view controllers and how
you can use table view controllers
within more complex view hierarchies.
That's on Thursday,
so you should come see that.
And we have a Mastering iPhone
Table Views session on Friday,
which will give you even more
information about the more powerful
features available in UI Table View,
including complex cell editing,
cell addition, cell deletion,
cell reordering,
and a variety of other things,
especially cell customization,
to get some very complicated and
intricate UIs just using UI Table View.
And we've also got two labs that
are dedicated to UI table views.
If you have questions about UI table view
or have specific questions about your
code and how you're trying to use it,
please drop by these labs.
I'll be there and some of the other
UIKit engineers will be there.
And we can answer your questions
about UI table view directly.